## ATLANTIC AMPHIBIAN TRAITS: a data set of morphological and ecological traits of amphibians in the Atlantic Forest

A compilation of morphological and ecological traits at both individual and species levels for amphibians in the Atlantic Forest of South America.

### Abstract

The lack of knowledge about species' functional traits represents a major challenge given the increase in focus on functional diversity studies. Typically available at the species-level, these data overlook individual variance within species. Amphibians are particularly suited for trait-based investigations due to their pivotal role connecting terrestrial and freshwater ecosystems through their biphasic life cycle. The Atlantic Forest of South America (AF) hosts approximately 720 species of amphibians, with over 70% being endemic. Despite their high and endemic diversity, the substantial loss of habitat and microhabitats in this hotspot threatens a significant portion of amphibian diversity. Thus, we present the ATLANTIC AMPHIBIAN TRAITS, a data set that includes morphological and ecological traits at both individual and species-level. At the individual-level, we measured 2,489 individuals representing 357 anuran species across 17 families (50% of amphibian diversity of AF), sourced from specimens in the CFBH collection. We assessed 12 continuous morphological traits, including body size (snout-vent length—SVL), head shape (width and length), and locomotor limbs (humerus, radioulna, hand, femur, tibiofibula, tarsus, foot, hindlimb, and forelimb), relevant to natural history characteristics, feeding, trophic levels, locomotion, migration, and dispersion. Additionally, we provide voucher collection numbers, complete taxonomy, geographic information, collection dates, and collector names for these individuals. The data set at species-level comprises 17 ecological traits (related to habitat, reproduction, and trophic characteristics) from 533 amphibian species across 21 families (74% of amphibian diversity of AF). These ecological traits, sourced from literature, comprise two continuous traits (female and male body size—SVL values), and 15 categorical traits covering various aspects such as locomotion mode, habitat preferences, reproductive modes, and toxicity levels. Acknowledging the data set's incompleteness given the vast amphibian diversity in the AF, we view this effort as a significant step in compiling individual amphibian traits for the Neotropical region. This data set serves as a valuable resource for advancing research on anthropogenic and climate change impacts on amphibian functional diversity within the AF ecosystems.

### Reference

Vancine, M. H., P. R. Anunciação, K. S. Duarte, D. B. Delgado, N. Alecrim, L. G. N. Damião, M. C. Ribeiro, and C. F. B. Haddad. ATLANTIC AMPHIBIAN TRAITS: a data set of morphological and ecological traits of amphibians in the Atlantic Forest. EcoEvoRxiv.
